# NCAA-Tournament-Decision-Tree-Prediction

For my senior capstone project I, along with my groupmates, decided to combine our interests of data science and college basketball. Since this was our project for the spring 2020 semester we decided to build a classification model to predict the outcome of the 2020 NCAA March Madness Tournament. With our luck, due to covid the tournament was cancelled for the health and wellbeing of the players. We still used multiple sources to create our own bracket of teams who were expected to play in the tournament.

We used the 68 teams that were expected to play in the tournament and began building classification models to decide who would win each game. Using results from previous tournaments we came to the conclusion that our decision tree was the most accurate form of classification. From there, we built a new decision tree to predict each round. For example in the round of 64 there is a decision tree to predict the next 32 teams. Then during the round of 32 there is a new decision tree to predict the 16 teams who move on etc. Based on our classification models the predicted champion for the 2020 tournament was the Dayton Flyers.

Despite the tournament being cancelled and being unable to compare our results to the actual data I had a lot of fun with this project and I learned a lot. From the variable selection in the beginning to the comparison of each classification model I am confident in my abilities for classification data science now.
